Add the Contribution Guide and Review Community and Security Pages (#177)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: contribution-guide.md

> ---

Reviewer: @NipunaMarcus Instead of duplicating the content in two places (https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md and here), is there a way to generate b.io page ?

Reviewer 2: As I found we can use submodule to get content from other repos. https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/using-submodules-with-github-pages

But its okay to have these type of duplicate docs in site coz we have to anyway change the markdown to have a jekyll layout to match other pages.

Reviewer: +1 for duplicates then as these contents are not frequently changing.

layout: ballerina-inner-page
title: The Ballerina Contribution Guide
permalink: /contribution-guide/
---

> # The ballerina Contribution Guide

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# The Ballerina Contribution Guide
```

> Ballerina is an open source programming language and platform for cloud-era application programmers to easily write software. It is an open-source project under the Apache license and the work of hundreds of contributors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Ballerina is an open source programming language and platform for cloud-era application programmers to easily write software. It is an open-source project under the Apache license, with hundreds of contributors.
```

Author: How about saying "It is an open-source project under the Apache license, which is owned by the Ballerina community"?

Author: Changed to "It is an open-source project under the Apache license, which is owned by the Ballerina community".

The focus should be to say that it is a collaboration of the whole community than mentioning the number of contributors.

Reviewer 4: Not sure if "owned" is what we want to talk about here. Also, to me it reads as though the license is owned by the Ballerina community.

Author: Changed as follows;

"Ballerina is an open source programming language and platform for cloud-era application programmers to easily write software. It is licensed under the Apache license and is nurtured by all the contributors of the Ballerina community."

We appreciate your help!

- [Getting engaged](#getting-engaged)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Obtaining the source code](#obtaining-the-source-code)
- [Building the project](building-the-project)
- [Setting up the developer environment](setting-up-the-developer-environment)
    - [Setting up IntelliJ IDEA](#setting-up-intelliJ-idea)
    - [Setting up Eclipse](#setting-up-eclipse)
- [Contributing to Ballerina grammar](#contributing-to-ballerina-grammar)
- [Submitting your contribution](#submitting-your-contribution)
- [Accepting the Contributor License Agreement](#accepting-the-contributor-license-agreement)
- [Proposing changes to Ballerina](#proposing-changes-to-ballerina)

## Getting engaged

> - The [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev) is the main Ballerina project discussion forum. Also, you can use [StackOverflow](#https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina) for support, [Slack](#https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q) for real-time communications.

Reviewer: Seems links are not added properly. They are not visible in .md file. Check all the places.

Author: Changed as follows.

- Join the conversations at:

    - [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev): to join the developer team mailing list to discuss Ballerina roadmap, features, issues that are in progress etc.
    - [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina): to get help with Ballerina. (Use the Ballerina tag for your questions there.) 
    - [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q): for real-time communications with the team and community.

Author: Added the icons.

> - The [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev) is the main Ballerina project discussion forum. Also, you can use [StackOverflow](#https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina) for support, [Slack](#https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q) for real-time communications.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev) is the main Ballerina project discussion forum. You can also use [StackOverflow](#https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina) for support, [Slack](#https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q) for real-time communications.
```

Author: This content was changed as follows as per a review comment from Anupama.

- Join the conversations at:

    - [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev): to join the developer team mailing list to discuss Ballerina roadmap, features, issues that are in progress etc.
    - [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina): to get help with Ballerina. (Use the Ballerina tag for your questions there.) 
    - [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q): for real-time communications with the team and community.

- **IMPORTANT:** Send an email to security@ballerina.io to report sensitive security-related issues. For details, see the <a href="https://ballerina.io/security/">security policy</a>.

> - Submitting a bug is just as important as contributing to code. Click the **Issues** tab of the below GitHub repos, click **New Issue**, fill out all sections in the issue template, and submit the bug/issue report.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we ask to create the issue in the relevant repo?

Author: Changed to "Click the **Issues** tab of the correspnding GitHub repo from the below ones,...".

> - Submitting a bug is just as important as contributing to code. Click the **Issues** tab of the below GitHub repos, click **New Issue**, fill out all sections in the issue template, and submit the bug/issue report.

Reviewer 4: The links are already for the issues tab, mentioning click the "Issues" tab is redundant.

Author: Changed to "Click **Issues** in the corresponding GitHub repo from the below ones,...".

Reviewer 4: Still has the original issue I mentioned. For example, if you look at the first bullet point, the link is https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues. 

When you click on that, you don't have to go and click "Issues" again. I suggest replacing
"Click the **Issues** tab of the below GitHub repos, click **New Issue**, fill out all sections in the issue template, and submit the bug/issue report."

with

"Create a new issue in the relevant GitHub repo:"

Author: Changed as follows:

"Create a new issue in the relevant GitHub repo using the below links, fill out all sections in the issue template, and submit the bug/issue report."

>     >**Tip:** If you are unsure whether you have found a bug, search existing issues in GitHub and raise it in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    >**Tip:** If you are unsure whether you have found a bug, search existing issues on GitHub and raise it in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev).
```

Author: You search in GitHub not on it.

Reviewer 4: Please see https://help.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github - these are the GitHub docs.

You search **in** a repository **on** GitHub.

Author: "In a repository on GitHub" is correct. But this is saying directly "in GitHub".

Reviewer 4: Sorry, I don't agree. If it is "in GitHub" shouldn't the GitHub docs say "in multiple repositories **in** GitHub" instead of "in multiple repositories **on** GitHub"?

IMO, you do something on a site, not in it.

@pubudu91 suggested "search existing issues in the corresponding repo on GitHub", how about using that?

Author: +1 Changed to " "search existing issues in the corresponding repo on GitHub"".

   - compiler, runtime, standard library, or tooling: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo.
   - language specification: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-spec/issues">ballerina-spec</a> repo.
   - website: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/issues">ballerina-dev-website</a> repo. 

## Getting started

> 1. Download [Ballerina](#https://ballerina.io) and go through the [learning resources](#https://ballerina.io/learn).

Reviewer: Links are not working. Check all the places

Author: Removed the hash sign in the links in all occurrences to get them to work.

2. Read the [Ballerina Code of Conduct](#https://ballerina.io/code-of-conduct).
3. Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from [Oracle](#http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or [OpenJDK](#http://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html) and install it.
>**Note:** Set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to the path name of the directory into which you installed JDK.
4. Download [Node.js](#https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 8.9.x or the latest LTS release) and intsall it.
5. Download [npm](#https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) (version 5.6.0 or later) and install it.

> 6. If you are using IntelliJ IDEA (version 2016.3 or later), download the [Ballerina extension for IntelliJ IDEA](#https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina) and install it.

Reviewer 3: IIRC, we need IntelliJ 2019 or later version. There's an issue with the Gradle plugin in the older versions.

Reviewer 5: @Pubudu Yeah this should be corrected as `2018.3 or later`. Thanks for pointing that out :)

Shall we also consider rephrasing this as follows?

'6.  If you are using IntelliJ IDEA, install the [Ballerina plugin for IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina). For installation instructions, see [Ballerina IntelliJ Plugin Documentation](https://ballerina.io/learn/tools-ides/intellij-plugin).
`

Author: Done.

> 7. Install and set up the ANTLR 4 plugin based on your IDE to check and validate a grammar rule you wrote.

Reviewer 3: We use ANTLR 4.5.3

Author: Changed as "ANTLR plugin version 4.5.3".

> 8. Start with GitHub issues that can be fixed easily:

Reviewer: IMO, the structure and the flow of this document is not correct. There are many issues like 

- We have repetitive content here (Ex: Setting up the developer environment etc) 

- subsections are not properly added.  

- prerequisits are not clear (Ex: Download locations of JDK etc) 
- CLA Agreement is moved to bottom

etc

The Original document ( https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) has a better flow than the proposed one. So please revisit and correct them

Author: 1. Changed the download locations of JDK as follows:

Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from one of the following locations:
    - [Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)
    - [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html) and install it.

2. Renamed the "Getting Started" topic as "Setting up the Prerequisites".

3. Moved the instructions on installing the IntelliJ plugin from the "Setting up the Prerequisites" section to "Setting up IntelliJ".

4. 3. Moved the instructions on installing the ANTLR plugin from the "Setting up the Prerequisites" section to "Setting up IntelliJ".

5. Renamed the "Getting Engaged" topic as "Getting Started".

6.Moved the "Start with GitHub issues that can be fixed easily:" point to the "Getting started" section".

When we consider the order of how the doc is organised, submitting the contribution via a PR comes last and that's where the CLA Agreement is presented to the user. That was why it was added last to demonstrate the exact order, which a user should follow when contributing.

## Setting up the developer environment

See the below sections to set up IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse as your development environment.

### Setting up IntelliJ IDEA

Follow the steps below to import the Ballerina project to IntelliJ IDEA similar to any other Gradle project.

1. In IntelliJ, click **File** and then click **Open**.
2. Browse the file system and select the <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO> root directory.
>**Tip:** If you are opening the directory for the first time in IntelliJ and if prompted to import it as a Gradle project, select the **Auto import** option.
3. Set Project SDK as Java 1.8.

### Setting up Eclipse

As all Ballerina repositories are developed as Maven or Gradle projects, follow the steps below to import any Ballerina project to Eclipse similar to any Maven or Gradle project.

1. In Eclipse, click **File** and then click **Import..**.
2. Under the **Maven** option, select **Existing Maven Projects**. 
3. Browse the file system and select the Maven module to open it.

## Contributing to Ballerina grammar

> Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR4. To get a basic understanding on ANTLR 4 grammar syntax and concepts before working with Ballerina grammar, go to [Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference](#http://lms.ui.ac.ir/public/group/90/59/01/15738_ce57.pdf).

Reviewer 3: Should we be linking to PDFs like this? I'm not sure whether they have the rights to redistribute the PDF like this. Shall we just link it to the publisher's page? https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-definitive-antlr/9781941222621/

Author: Changed the link.

- **BallerinaParser.g4:** contains the parser rules. Parser listens to the token stream generated by the lexer. High level grammar productions/abstractions are defined in the parser using those tokens.

Once a change is done to any of the grammar files, the lexer and the parser need to be re-generated. To generate the lexer and the parser, navigate to the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/ directory, and execute the below command. 

>**Tip:** Download the [antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar](#https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.antlr/antlr4/4.5.3/source-code) file and replace <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR> in the below command with the location in which you saved it.

```bash 
java -jar <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>/antlr-4.5.3-complete.jar *.g4 -package org.wso2.ballerinalang.compiler.par
```

For more information about the Ballerina compiler, go to [Ballerina Compiler — Design](#https://medium.com/@sameerajayasoma/ballerina-compiler-design-3406acc2476c?).

## Submitting your contribution

1. Do your changes in the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO> using Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA.
2. Add unit tests accordingly. (The build process will automatically execute all the tests.)

> 3. Commit the changes to your Fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request. 
```

Author: Fixed.

>**Tip:** Follow these commit message requirements:

- Separate subject from body with a blank line
- Limit the subject line to 50 characters
- Capitalize the subject line
- Do not end the subject line with a period
- Use the imperative mood in the subject line
- Wrap the body at 72 characters
- Use the body to explain what and why vs. how

For more information, go to [How to Write a Git Commit Message](#https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).

## Accepting the Contributor License Agreement 

> You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first Pull Request (PR. Subsequent PRs will not require CLA acceptance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first Pull Request (PR). Subsequent PRs will not require CLA acceptance.
```

Author: Fixed as follows:

"You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first Pull Request."

> If the CLA gets changed for some (unlikely) reason, you will get presented with the new CLA text on your first PR, which is sent after the change.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the CLA gets changed for some (unlikely) reason, you will be presented with the new CLA text when sending your first PR after the change.
```

Author: Fixed.

## Proposing changes to Ballerina

> Start the discussion on the changes you propose in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev). Once there is enough consensus around the proposal, you will likely be asked to file an Issue in GitHub and label it as 'Proposal' to continue a detailed discussion there.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Start the discussion on the changes you propose in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev). Once there is enough consensus around the proposal, you will likely be asked to file an issue on GitHub and label it as 'Proposal' to continue a detailed discussion there.
```

Author: Fixed the capitalisation. You do something in GitHub not on it.

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above re: "on"

Author: "In a repository on GitHub" is correct. But this is saying directly "in GitHub".

Author: Changed to "on GitHub".

---
layout: ballerina-inner-page
title: The Ballerina Contribution Guide
permalink: /contribution-guide/
---

# The Ballerina Contribution Guide

> Ballerina is an open source programming language and platform for cloud-era application programmers to easily write software. It is licensed under the Apache license and is nurtured by all the contributors of the Ballerina community.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we provide the link for Apache license[1] here? 

[1] https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Author: Added the link.

We appreciate your help!

- [Get started](#get-started)
- [Set up the Prerequisites](#set-up-the-prerequisites)
- [Set up the developer environment](#set-up-the-developer-environment)
    - [Set up IntelliJ IDEA](#set-up-intellij-idea)
    - [Set up Eclipse](#set-up-eclipse)
- [Obtain the source code](#obtain-the-source-code)
- [Build the project](#build-the-project)
- [Contribute to Ballerina grammar](#contribute-to-ballerina-grammar)
- [Submit your contribution](#submit-your-contribution)
- [Accept the Contributor License Agreement](#accept-the-contributor-license-agreement)
- [Propose changes to Ballerina](#propose-changes-to-ballerina)

## Get started

> - Join the conversations at:

Reviewer: What is the reason for removing the following line from this section? IMO, Since we are actively using github for discussions related to issues and new proposals, we should add it also.l

"GitHub: file issues, comment on other issues, send your pull requests."

Author: Added the link as follows:

 - [GitHub][(https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues): to file issues, comment on other issues, send your pull requests.

>     - [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev): to join the developer team mailing list to discuss Ballerina roadmap, features, issues that are in progress etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev): to join the developer team mailing list to discuss Ballerina roadmap, features, issues that are in progress, etc.
```

    - [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina): to get help with Ballerina. (Use the Ballerina tag for your questions there.) 

>     - [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q): for real-time communications with the team and community.

Reviewer 3: Shall we swap Slack and Stack Overflow? Also, SO, seems to be two words: "Stack Overflow"

Author: Swapped Slack and SO.

>     - [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T47EAEKB5/DF818FX9Q): for real-time communications with the team and community.

Reviewer: Is this link correct for slack? Better to put [1] without the client redirected link.

[1] https://ballerina-platform.slack.com/

Author: Changed the link accordingly.

    >**Tip:** If you are unsure whether you have found a bug, search existing issues in the corresponding repo on GitHub and raise it in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev).
   - compiler, runtime, standard library, or tooling: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo.
   - language specification: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-spec/issues">ballerina-spec</a> repo.
   - website: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/issues">ballerina-dev-website</a> repo. 

-  Start with GitHub issues that can be fixed easily:
    - Browse issues labeled "good first issue" in the <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo.
    - Use comments on the issue itself to indicate that you will be working on it and get guidance and help.

## Set up the prerequisites
1. Download [Ballerina](https://ballerina.io) and go through the [learning resources](https://ballerina.io/learn).

> 2. Read the [Ballerina Code of Conduct](https://ballerina.io/code-of-conduct).

Reviewer: This link seems not working. Will it be adding with a different PR? If that's the case lets add that PR as a pre-requisite for this PR.

Author: Added https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/179 as a prerequisite in this issue description.

3. Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from one of the following locations:
    - [Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)

>     - [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html) and install it.

Reviewer: It seems the "and install it" should not be part of the bullet point as it is common for both points. Shall we change the main line to the following?

"Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from one of the following locations and install it."

Author: Done

> >**Note:** Set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to the path name of the directory into which you installed JDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the path name of the directory into which you installed JDK.
```

Author: Done

4. Download [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 8.9.x or the latest LTS release) and install it.
5. Download [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) (version 5.6.0 or later) and install it.

> ## Set up the developer environment

Reviewer: Shouldn't we swap this section with "Obtain the source code " section? The reason is below sections are asking to open the balleirna-lang-repo in IDEs , but the details on getting the code is not explained yet.

Author: Changed the order of the sections as follows.

- [Get started](#get-started)
- [Set up the Prerequisites](#set-up-the-prerequisites)
- [Obtain the source code](#obtain-the-source-code)
- [Build the project](#build-the-project)
- [Set up the developer environment](#set-up-the-developer-environment)
    - [Set up IntelliJ IDEA](#set-up-intellij-idea)
    - [Set up Eclipse](#set-up-eclipse)
- [Contribute to Ballerina grammar](#contribute-to-ballerina-grammar)
- [Submit your contribution](#submit-your-contribution)
- [Accept the Contributor License Agreement](#accept-the-contributor-license-agreement)
- [Propose changes to Ballerina](#propose-changes-to-ballerina)

See the below sections to set up IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse as your development environment.

### Set up IntelliJ IDEA

Follow the steps below to import the Ballerina project to IntelliJ IDEA similar to any other Gradle project.

1. In IntelliJ, click **File** and then click **Open**.
2. Browse the file system and select the <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO> root directory.
>**Tip:** If you are opening the directory for the first time in IntelliJ and if prompted to import it as a Gradle project, select the **Auto import** option.
3. Set Project SDK as Java 1.8.
4. Install the following plugins:
    - [Ballerina plugin for IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina)
    
        For installation instructions, see [Ballerina IntelliJ Plugin Documentation](https://ballerina.io/learn/tools-ides/intellij-plugin).
    - [ANTLR plugin for IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7358-antlr-v4-grammar-plugin)
        
        This will be useful to check and validate a [grammar rule](#contributing-to-ballerina-grammar) you wrote.

### Set up Eclipse

> As all Ballerina repositories are developed as Maven or Gradle projects, follow the steps below to import any Ballerina project to Eclipse similar to any Maven or Gradle project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As all Ballerina repositories are developed as Maven or Gradle projects, follow the steps below to import any Ballerina project to Eclipse similar to any other Maven or Gradle project.
```

1. In Eclipse, click **File** and then click **Import..**.
2. Under the **Maven** option, select **Existing Maven Projects**. 

> 3. Browse the file system and select the Maven module to open it.

Reviewer: What is teh reason for skipping the section [1] for ANTLR plugin installation? Since it is explained for IDEA plugin, either we should do the same for eclipse as well or move it to a common section 

[1] https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/blame/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#L130:L143

Reviewer: This  is not fixed?

Author: Discussed with @nadeeshaan and changed the sections as follows:

- [Set up the developer environment](#set-up-the-developer-environment)
    - [Set up the Ballerina plugin](#set-up-the-ballerina-plugin)
    - [Set up the ANTLR4 plugin](#set-up-the-antlr4-plugin)

## Obtain the source code 

1. Execute the below command to clone the ballerina-lang Git repo.
```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang.git
```

> >**Tip:** If you have already forked the repository to your GitHub account, then execute the below command replacing 'YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME' with your Git username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Tip:** If you have already forked the repository to your GitHub account, then execute the below command replacing `YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME` with your Git username.
```

Author: Done

```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>/ballerina-lang.git
```
2. Execute the below command to update the Git submodules.
```bash 
git submodule update --init
```
## Build the project

1. Navigate to the <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO> root directory and execute the below Gradle command.
```bash 
./gradlew clean build
```
2. Extract the built Ballerina distributions in the below locations.
-  **runtime only:** <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina/build/distributions/jballerina-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip. 

> -  **runtime and tools (e.g., Ballerina Composer):** <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina-tools/build/distributions/jballerina-tools-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip.

Reviewer: Since we don't have composer now, we should rephrase this

Author: Changed to "runtime and tools (e.g., Ballerina Language Server):".

>**Note:** If you face an IOException error stating "Too many open files", this is due to the default number of possible open files being set to a lower number on your operating system than required for Ballerina to be compiled. You may have to increase the number of open files/file descriptors (FD) on your operating system to 1000000 (or higher).

## Contribute to Ballerina grammar

> Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR plugin version 4.5.3. To get a basic understanding on ANTLR grammar syntax and concepts before working with Ballerina grammar, go to [Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-definitive-antlr/9781941222621/).

Reviewer: It is not a plugin version. Shouldn't it be ANTLR 4?

Reviewer 3: We are using that particular version for generating the parser and the lexer. So IMHO, it's better to stick to the exact version everyone else is using to avoid any unexpected surprises .

> Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR plugin version 4.5.3. To get a basic understanding on ANTLR grammar syntax and concepts before working with Ballerina grammar, go to [Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-definitive-antlr/9781941222621/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR plugin version 4.5.3. To get a basic understanding of ANTLR grammar syntax and concepts before working with Ballerina grammar, go to [Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-definitive-antlr/9781941222621/).
```

[Ballerina grammar](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/tree/master/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar) consists of two files:

> - **BallerinaLexer.g4:** contains the lexer rules for Ballerina grammar. Lexer is responsible for tokenizing an input Ballerina source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BallerinaLexer.g4:** Contains the lexer rules for Ballerina grammar. Lexer is responsible for tokenizing an input Ballerina source code.
```

Author: You do not need to have a uppercase letter after the semi colon.

> - **BallerinaParser.g4:** contains the parser rules. Parser listens to the token stream generated by the lexer. High level grammar productions/abstractions are defined in the parser using those tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BallerinaParser.g4:** Contains the parser rules. Parser listens to the token stream generated by the lexer. High level grammar productions/abstractions are defined in the parser using those tokens.
```

Author: You do not need to have an uppercase letter after the semi colon.

> Once a change is done to any of the grammar files, the lexer and the parser need to be re-generated. To generate the lexer and the parser, navigate to the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/ directory, and execute the below command. 

Reviewer: Any specific reason to remove [1]?

[1] https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/blame/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#L163

Author: It was missed by mistake. Added the following:

**Info:** The above command will autogenerate some Java classes. The Ballerina AST builder is written on top of the auto-generated `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java` class. Thus, if any new rules are added to the `BallerinaParser.g4`, above command will generate new methods in the `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java` and you need to override those newly-added methods inside the `BLangParserListener.java` accordingly.

> >**Tip:** Download the [antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar](https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.antlr/antlr4/4.5.3/source-code) file and replace <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR> in the below command with the location in which you saved it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Tip:** Download the [antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar](https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.antlr/antlr4/4.5.3/source-code) file and replace `<PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>` in the below command with the location in which you saved it.
```

```bash 

> java -jar <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>/antlr-4.5.3-complete.jar *.g4 -package org.wso2.ballerinalang.compiler.par

Reviewer: Is this correct? Seems like part is missing

Reviewer 3: ```
java -jar <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>/antlr-4.5.3-complete.jar *.g4 -package org.wso2.ballerinalang.compiler.parser.antlr4 -o <BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/java/org/wso2/ballerinalang/compiler/parser/antlr4/
```

Author: Fixed.

```

For more information about the Ballerina compiler, go to [Ballerina Compiler — Design](https://medium.com/@sameerajayasoma/ballerina-compiler-design-3406acc2476c?).

## Submit your contribution

> 1. Do your changes in the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO> using Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA.

Reviewer: IMO, we don't need to specify about tooling here.

Author: Changed to "Do your changes in the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO>."

2. Add unit tests accordingly. (The build process will automatically execute all the tests.)

> 3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request (PR). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request (PR). 
```

> 3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a pull request. 
```

Author: Changed to "by sending a Pull Request (PR). ".

>**Tip:** Follow these commit message requirements:

> - Separate subject from body with a blank line

Reviewer: Better to have some indentation here

Author: Added a single-tab indentation.

- Limit the subject line to 50 characters
- Capitalize the subject line
- Do not end the subject line with a period
- Use the imperative mood in the subject line
- Wrap the body at 72 characters
- Use the body to explain what and why vs. how

For more information, go to [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).

## Accepting the Contributor License Agreement 

> You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first Pull Request. Subsequent PRs will not require CLA acceptance.

Reviewer 4: Since the abbreviation within brackets was removed, shouldn't we update this as

```suggestion
You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first pull request. Subsequent pull requests will not require CLA acceptance.
```

Author: Changed as follows:

"You need to Accept the Ballerina Contributor License Agreement (CLA) here when prompted by GitHub while sending your first Pull Request (PR). Subsequent PRs will not require CLA acceptance."

We appreciate your help!

- [Get started](#get-started)
- [Set up the Prerequisites](#set-up-the-prerequisites)
- [Obtain the source code](#obtain-the-source-code)
- [Build the project](#build-the-project)
- [Set up the developer environment](#set-up-the-developer-environment)
    - [Set up IntelliJ IDEA](#set-up-intellij-idea)
    - [Set up Eclipse](#set-up-eclipse)
- [Contribute to Ballerina grammar](#contribute-to-ballerina-grammar)
- [Submit your contribution](#submit-your-contribution)
- [Accept the Contributor License Agreement](#accept-the-contributor-license-agreement)
- [Propose changes to Ballerina](#propose-changes-to-ballerina)

## Get started

- Join the conversations at:

    - [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev): to join the developer team mailing list to discuss Ballerina roadmap, features, issues that are in progress, etc.
    - [Slack](https://ballerina-platform.slack.com/): for real-time communications with the team and community.
    - [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ballerina): to get help with Ballerina. (Use the Ballerina tag for your questions there.) 

>     - [GitHub][(https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues): to file issues, comment on other issues, send your pull requests.

Reviewer: Not linked properly

Author: Fixed.

Author: We have the icons now.

- **IMPORTANT:** Send an email to security@ballerina.io to report sensitive security-related issues. For details, see the <a href="https://ballerina.io/security/">security policy</a>.

- Submitting a bug is just as important as contributing to code. Create a new issue in the relevant GitHub repo using the below links, fill out all sections in the issue template, and submit the bug/issue report. 

    >**Tip:** If you are unsure whether you have found a bug, search existing issues in the corresponding repo on GitHub and raise it in the [Ballerina-Dev Google Group](#https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ballerina-dev).
   - compiler, runtime, standard library, or tooling: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues">ballerina-lang</a> repo.
   - language specification: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-spec/issues">ballerina-spec</a> repo.

>    - website: <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/issues">ballerina-dev-website</a> repo. 

Reviewer: Shouldn't we start the bullet points with an upper case letter? It seems the way in other places, but not here.

Author: Done.

Author: We have the icons now.

    - Use comments on the issue itself to indicate that you will be working on it and get guidance and help.

## Set up the prerequisites
1. Download [Ballerina](https://ballerina.io) and go through the [learning resources](https://ballerina.io/learn).
2. Read the [Ballerina Code of Conduct](https://ballerina.io/code-of-conduct).
3. Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from one of the following locations and install it.
    - [Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)
    - [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html) 
>**Note:** Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the path name of the directory into which you installed JDK.
4. Download [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 8.9.x or the latest LTS release) and install it.
5. Download [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) (version 5.6.0 or later) and install it.

## Obtain the source code 

1. Execute the below command to clone the ballerina-lang Git repo.
```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang.git
```

> >**Tip:** If you have already forked the repository to your GitHub account, then execute the below command replacing 'YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME' with your Git username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Tip:** If you have already forked the repository to your GitHub account, then execute the below command replacing `<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>` with your Git username.
```

```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>/ballerina-lang.git
```
2. Execute the below command to update the Git submodules.
```bash 
git submodule update --init
```
## Build the project

> 1. Navigate to the <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO> root directory and execute the below Gradle command.

Reviewer: What it is meant by <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO> is not clear here. Shall we simply say Ballerina root directory?

Author: Changed to "BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT" by introducing it as follows in its first occurrence:

Navigate to the root directory of the Ballerina project (i.e., <BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>) and execute the below Gradle command.

Reviewer: Change all the occurrences of <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO> with <BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>

Author: Fixed all occurrences.

```bash 
./gradlew clean build
```
2. Extract the built Ballerina distributions in the below locations.

> -  **runtime only:** <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina/build/distributions/jballerina-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **runtime only:** `<BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina/build/distributions/jballerina-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip` 
```

Author: Done

> -  **runtime and tools (e.g., Ballerina Language Server):** <BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina-tools/build/distributions/jballerina-tools-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **runtime and tools (e.g., Ballerina Language Server):** `<BALLERINA-LANG_REPO>/distribution/zip/jballerina-tools/build/distributions/jballerina-tools-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip`
```

Author: Done.

>**Note:** If you face an IOException error stating "Too many open files", this is due to the default number of possible open files being set to a lower number on your operating system than required for Ballerina to be compiled. You may have to increase the number of open files/file descriptors (FD) on your operating system to 1000000 (or higher).

> ## Set up the developer environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up the development environment
```

Reviewer: Update the topic as well.

Author: Done.

>**Tip:** Download the [antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar](https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.antlr/antlr4/4.5.3/source-code) file and replace `<PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>` in the below command with the location in which you saved it.

```bash 
java -jar <PATH-TO-ANTLR-JAR>/antlr-4.5.3-complete.jar *.g4 -package org.wso2.ballerinalang.compiler.parser.antlr4 -o <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/java/org/wso2/ballerinalang/compiler/parser/antlr4/
```

**Info:** The above command will autogenerate some Java classes. The Ballerina AST builder is written on top of the auto-generated `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java` class. Thus, if any new rules are added to the `BallerinaParser.g4`, above command will generate new methods in the `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java` and you need to override those newly-added methods inside the `BLangParserListener.java` accordingly.

For more information about the Ballerina compiler, go to [Ballerina Compiler — Design](https://medium.com/@sameerajayasoma/ballerina-compiler-design-3406acc2476c?).

## Submit your contribution

> 1. Do your changes in the <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO>.

Reviewer: <BALLERINA_LANG_REPO> doesn't make sense here. Here we are talking about the source code already in the local machine.

Author: Changed to "Do your changes in the source code.".

2. Add unit tests accordingly. (The build process will automatically execute all the tests.)

> 3. Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the original <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang">ballerina-lang</a> repo by sending a Pull Request (PR). 

Reviewer: Why are we talking specifically about ballerina-lang repo here? This contribution guide, given in ballerina web site should be common for all the repos.

Author: Changed to "Commit the changes to your fork and push them to the corresponding original repo by sending a Pull Request (PR).".

>**Tip:** Follow these commit message requirements:

    - Separate subject from body with a blank line
    - Limit the subject line to 50 characters
    - Capitalize the subject line
    - Do not end the subject line with a period
    - Use the imperative mood in the subject line
    - Wrap the body at 72 characters

>     - Use the body to explain what and why vs. how

Reviewer: shall we convert this to a bullet list?

Author: Done.

3. Download the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) version 8 from one of the following locations and install it.
    - [Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)
    - [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html) 
>**Note:** Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the path name of the directory into which you installed JDK.
4. Download [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 8.9.x or the latest LTS release) and install it.
5. Download [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) (version 5.6.0 or later) and install it.

## Obtain the source code 

1. Execute the below command to clone the ballerina-lang Git repo.
```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang.git
```
>**Tip:** If you have already forked the repository to your GitHub account, then execute the below command replacing `<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>` with your Git username.
```bash 
git clone --recursive https://github.com/<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>/ballerina-lang.git
```
2. Execute the below command to update the Git submodules.
```bash 
git submodule update --init
```
## Build the project

> 1. Navigate to the root directory of the Ballerina project (i.e., <BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>) and execute the below Gradle command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the root directory of the Ballerina project (i.e., `<BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>`) and execute the below Gradle command.
```

### Set up the ANTLR4 plugin

This plugin will be useful to check and validate a [grammar rule](#contributing-to-ballerina-grammar) you wrote. For instructions on installing the ANTLR4 plugin based on your preferred IDE/Editor (which supports antlr 4.x version), go to [ANTLR Documentation](https://www.antlr.org/tools.html).

## Contribute to Ballerina grammar

Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR plugin version 4.5.3. To get a basic understanding of ANTLR grammar syntax and concepts before working with Ballerina grammar, go to [Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-definitive-antlr/9781941222621/).

[Ballerina grammar](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/tree/master/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar) consists of two files:

- **BallerinaLexer.g4:** contains the lexer rules for Ballerina grammar. Lexer is responsible for tokenizing an input Ballerina source code.
- **BallerinaParser.g4:** contains the parser rules. Parser listens to the token stream generated by the lexer. High level grammar productions/abstractions are defined in the parser using those tokens.

> Once a change is done to any of the grammar files, the lexer and the parser need to be re-generated. To generate the lexer and the parser, navigate to the <BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/ directory, and execute the below command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a change is done to any of the grammar files, the lexer and the parser need to be re-generated. To generate the lexer and the parser, navigate to the `<BALLERINA_PROJECT_ROOT>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/` directory, and execute the below command. 
```
